README.md, before:

## Fluentd Server

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/sonots/fluentd-server.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/sonots/fluentd-server)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/sonots/fluentd-server/badge.png?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/sonots/fluentd-server?branch=master)

A Fluentd config distribution server

Demo: [http://fluentd-server.herokuapp.com](http://fluentd-server.herokuapp.com)

## What You Can Do

With Fluentd Server, you can manage fluentd configuration files centrally with `erb`. 

For example, you may create a config whose name is `worker` as:

```
<source>
  type forward
  port <%= port %>
</source>

<match **>
  type stdout
</match>
```

Then you can download the config via an API whose uri is like `/api/worker?port=24224` where its query parameters are replaced with variables in the erb. 
The downloaded contents should become as follows:

```
<source>
  type forward
  port 24224
</source>

<match **>
  type stdout
</match>
```

## How to Use

The `include` directive of fluentd config supports `http`, so write just one line on your fluentd.conf as:

```
# /etc/fluentd.conf
include http://fqdn.to.fluentd-server/api/{name}?port=24224
```

so that it will download the real configuration from the Fluentd Server.

## Installation

Prerequisites

* SQLite
* Ruby 2.0 or later

### From Gem package

Easy steps on installation with gem and SQLite.

```bash
$ gem install fluentd-server
$ gem install sqlite3
$ fluentd-server new
$ cd fluentd-server
$ fluentd-server init # creates database scheme on SQLite
$ fluentd-server start
```

Then see `http://localhost:5126/`.

### From Git repository

Install from git repository. 

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/sonots/fluentd-server.git
$ cd fluentd-server
$ bundle
$ bundle exec fluentd-server init # creates database scheme on SQLite
$ bundle exec fluentd-server start
```

Then see `http://localhost:5126/`. 

## Configuration

To configure fluentd-server, edit the `.env` file in the project root directory.

The default configuration is as follows:

```
PORT=5126
HOST=0.0.0.0
# DATA_DIR=data
# DATABASE_URL=sqlite3:data/fluentd_server.db
# LOG_PATH=log/application.log
# LOG_LEVEL=warn
```

## ToDo

* Handling burst accesses

  * Restarting the entire fluentd cluster burstly accesses to Fluentd Server. 
  * Using puma would be better than using unicorn?

* Exporting conf

  * Rather, saving and loading conf from local files would be nice because it makes possible to manage conf with git
  * Fluentd Server should cache them on memory, and refresh caches by detecting files are updated

* Supporting an array and a hash with API as query parameters

  * One may want to use variables of an array or a hash in erb
  * Write API reference

## ChangeLog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for details.

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new [Pull Request](../../pull/new/master)

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2014 Naotoshi Seo. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

support hash and array for query parameters

README.md, after:

# Fluentd Server

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/sonots/fluentd-server.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/sonots/fluentd-server)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/sonots/fluentd-server/badge.png?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/sonots/fluentd-server?branch=master)

A Fluentd config distribution server

Demo: [http://fluentd-server.herokuapp.com](http://fluentd-server.herokuapp.com)

## What You Can Do

With Fluentd Server, you can manage fluentd configuration files centrally with `erb`. 

For example, you may create a config post whose name is `worker` as:

```
<source>
  type forward
  port <%= port %>
</source>

<match **>
  type stdout
</match>
```

Then you can download the config via an API whose uri is like `/api/worker?port=24224` where its query parameters are replaced with variables in the erb. 
The downloaded contents should become as follows:

```
<source>
  type forward
  port 24224
</source>

<match **>
  type stdout
</match>
```

## How to Use

The `include` directive of fluentd config supports `http`, so write just one line on your fluentd.conf as:

```
# /etc/fluentd.conf
include http://fqdn.to.fluentd-server/api/:name?port=24224
```

where :name is the name of your config post, so that it will download the real configuration from the Fluentd Server.

## Installation

Prerequisites

* SQLite
* Ruby 2.0 or later

### From Gem package

Easy steps on installation with gem and SQLite.

```bash
$ gem install fluentd-server
$ gem install sqlite3
$ fluentd-server new
$ cd fluentd-server
$ fluentd-server init # creates database scheme on SQLite
$ fluentd-server start
```

Then see `http://localhost:5126/`.

### From Git repository

Install from git repository. 

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/sonots/fluentd-server.git
$ cd fluentd-server
$ bundle
$ bundle exec fluentd-server init # creates database scheme on SQLite
$ bundle exec fluentd-server start
```

Then see `http://localhost:5126/`. 

## Configuration

To configure fluentd-server, edit the `.env` file in the project root directory.

The default configuration is as follows:

```
PORT=5126
HOST=0.0.0.0
# DATA_DIR=data
# DATABASE_URL=sqlite3:data/fluentd_server.db
# LOG_PATH=log/application.log
# LOG_LEVEL=warn
```

## HTTP API

See [API.md](API.md).

## ToDo

* Handling burst accesses

  * Restarting the entire fluentd cluster burstly accesses to Fluentd Server. 
  * Using puma would be better than using unicorn?

* Exporting conf

  * Rather, saving and loading conf from local files would be nice because it makes possible to manage conf with git
  * Fluentd Server should cache them on memory, and refresh caches by detecting files are updated

## ChangeLog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for details.

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new [Pull Request](../../pull/new/master)

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2014 Naotoshi Seo. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
